#WAYNEXT STORY

The domestic new crown epidemic, high housing prices, slowing economic development, widening gap between the rich and the poor, dependence on investment policy paths, obvious K-shaped recovery, insufficient demand, hindered internal circulation, drastic changes in the external environment, and reform has entered a deep-water area. 200 million people are employed flexibly, 10 million college graduates every year, and about 10 million births, the continued low marriage rate and birth rate, unbalanced population structure, surge in employment pressure, layoffs at the age of 35, 996 jobs The system, the rapid inflation, and the uneven welfare model make people wonder where they are going.

Foreign refugee crisis, Asian discrimination, worrying security situation, economic recession under the influence of the epidemic, trade wars, countries turning to the right, social classes torn apart, technological progress is flattening, globalization is hindered, and political correctness prevails. Even if you decide to leave your hometown and start anew, you have to bear great pressure and uncertainty, and the difficulty and risk are extremely high. The academic route has its own limitations and may not be suitable for everyone.

Stepping into such a world, one can't help but feel a little pessimistic, where is the future road? Is life just trying to survive and dreams and pursuits are meaningless? It seems not. After all, "chaos is a ladder". During the long journey of human development, it is often believed that development has reached the end, but after the fact, it is just a pure illusion. Change means the emergence of new things and more opportunities.


The key to the changing situation lies in decision-making. A good decision can bring about many changes. "Choices are greater than efforts" is no longer an empty phrase but a fact that has been repeatedly proven. Theoretically speaking, future planning can be effectively completed through understanding of one's own preferences and prediction of the future state of the world, combined with appropriate analysis and planning capabilities. However, this is almost impossible for individuals. After all, understanding the operating mechanism of society requires a huge amount of knowledge, massive information and powerful processing capabilities. Not many people actually see the world clearly and completely by themselves in their early twenties. Since the ideal decision cannot be achieved, is there no value in entangled in the direction? Obviously not. Even some simple inter-development period information can bring considerable help, such as avoiding entering the Tiankeng major when choosing a major, and avoiding entering a downward industry when choosing an industry.


In fact, there are more things that can be done. You can explore and try the feasible paths in your experience, you can reserve the corresponding knowledge according to your needs, you can establish more information links to find suitable opportunities, and you can switch regions to seek more space. , you can lie flat to reduce losses and so on. "One person can go faster, and a group of people can go farther." Establishing a community can bring together the experience gained by people on different routes and different periods, and promote the accumulation and mutual exchange of knowledge, which will effectively improve the reuse efficiency. cut costs. In order to collect more questions, gather more experience, get more tests, etc. to further improve the decision-making mechanism, there is an opportunity to be one step closer to a reasonable decision. And every step closer brings enormous value, both individually and as a group.


To be more precise, great changes are unfolding, and the value of choice is bound to be revealed. Although the situation is more complicated, the tools and information we can have are already changing with each passing day. From the information popularization and cost reduction brought by the Internet and higher education, to the gradual maturity of open source collaboration and peer review, to the adversity and pressure faced by the unified face and the new ideas and new opportunities. If we can improve the engineering degree of decision-making and make the whole process more scientific, more efficient, lower cost and more agile, we can build a wide range of future decision support projects like creating a lighthouse in the endless ocean, This will definitely help more people.


So right now, waynext hopes to initiate and promote this community, start with basic projects and releases and gradually grow, and further pursue value and realize its vision in the future.